.\"-
.\" Manual page written by Christopher Harrop <christopher.w.harrop@noaa.gov>
.\"
.\"
.Dd January 25, 2013
.Os
.Dt ROCOTOSTAT 1 CON
.Sh NAME
.Nm rocotostat
.Nd Display status information for a Rocoto workflow
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl v Ar #
.Op Fl -version
.Fl d Ar database_file
.Fl w Ar workflow_file
.Op Fl c Ar cyclespec
.Op Fl t Ar taskspec
.Op Fl s 
.Op Fl T
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool for querying the status of tasks or cycles in an active Rocoto
workflow.  The summary level status information provides an overview
of a workflow's execution progress.  There are  options that can be used
to query the state of the specific sets of cycles and/or tasks that are
of interest.  By default,
.Nm
will display the state of all tasks in the workflow for the most recently
activated cycle.  
.Pp
The status information displayed for tasks includes: the job id, the task's
current state, the task's exit status, and the number of task tries.  
.Pp
The status information displayed for cycles includes: the cycle's current state,
when the cycle was activated, and when the cycle was deactivated.
.Pp
The
.Nm
command requires two arguments. The
.Cm -w
flag specifies the name
of the workflow definition file. The
.Cm -d
flag specifies the name of the database file
that contains the state of the workflow that is to be queried.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl -version
Display the version number and exit.
.It Fl h, -help
Display a short help message and exit.
.It Fl v, -verbose Ar #
Run Rocoto in verbose mode with the specified level. If no level is
specified a level of 1 is used.
.It Fl d, -database Ar file
The path to the Rocoto database file for the workflow containing the task to be stated.
.It Fl w, -workflow Ar file
The path to the Rocoto workflow file defining the task that is to be stated.
.It Fl t, -task Ar taskspec
The tasks to query.  Tasks may be specified in one of two ways:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
task1,task2,...,taskN  (all tasks in the list)
.It
.Qq regular expression
.El
.It Fl c, -cycle Ar cyclespec.
The cycles to query.  Cycles may be specified using the YYYYMMDDHHMM format in one of four ways:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
c1,c2,...,cN (all cycles in the list)
.It
c1:2 (all cycles inclusively between c1 and c2)
.It
:c2 (all cycles <= c2)
.It
c1: (all cycles >= c1)
.El
.It Fl s
Print a cycle status summary.
.It Fl T
Sort the output by task sequence (the order in which tasks are defined in the workflow definition file) instead of cycle.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The command:
.Pp
.Ic "rocotostat -d foo.db -w foo.xml -t wrf -c 201301010000"
.Pp
Will report the status of the
.Qq wrf
task for the cycle
.Qq 201301010000
defined in the workflow definition file named
.Qq foo.xml
and contained in the database file named
.Qq foo.db
.Pp
The command:
.Pp
.Ic "rocotostat -d foo.db -w foo.xml -c 201301010000:201301312359 -T"
.Pp
Will report the status, sorted by task sequence, of all workflow tasks for all the cycles in January 2013
defined in the workflow definition file named
.Qq foo.xml
and contained in the database file named
.Qq foo.db

.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh DOCUMENTATION
Complete documentation can be found at: http://rdhpcs.noaa.gov/rocoto/
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rocotocheck 1 ,
.Xr rocotorun 1 ,
.Xr rocotoboot 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
command is expected to be
.St -p1003.2
compatible.
.Sh AUTHOR
Written by Christopher Harrop
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs to <christopher.w.harrop@noaa.gov>
