.\"-
.\" Manual page written by Timothy Brown <Timothy.P.Brown@noaa.org>
.\"
.\"
.Dd January 25, 2013
.Os
.Dt ROCOTOBOOT 1 CON
.Sh NAME
.Nm rocotoboot
.Nd force a specific task for a specific cycle of a specific Rocoto workflow to run.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl v Ar #
.Op Fl -version
.Fl d Ar database_file
.Fl w Ar workflow_file
.Fl t Ar task
.Fl c Ar cycle
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool to force a specific task for a specific cycle of a specific Rocoto workflow
to run.  All dependencies and throttle limits are ignored, but some limitations still
apply.
.Pp
The rocotoboot command is useful for running a task that has already been run 
successfully, but which needs to be rerun after making changes to the task.
It can also be used to manually circumvent dependencies and throttle limits
in special situations when applicable.
.Pp
The following limitations apply:
.Pp
.Nd A task cannot be booted if its state is EXPIRED.
.Pp
.Nd A task cannot be booted for a cycle is EXPIRED. 
.Pp
.Nd A task cannot be booted if a task already exists for the spcified cycle and has not yet completed.
.Pp
The rocotoboot command requires four arguments. The 
.Cm -w
flag specifies the name
of the workflow definition file. The 
.Cm -d
flag specifies the name of the database file
that contains the state of the workflow for the task that is to be booted. 
The
.Cm -t
flag specifies the task name to boot. The
.Cm -c
flag specifies the appropriate cycle number.
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl -version
Display the version number and exit.
.It Fl h, -help
Display a short help message and exit.
.It Fl v, -verbose Ar #
Run Rocoto in verbose mode with the specified level. If no level is
specified a level of 1 is used.
.It Fl d, -database Ar file
The path to the Rocoto database file for the workflow containing the task to be booted.
.It Fl w, -workflow Ar file
The path to the Rocoto workflow file defining the task that is to be booted
.It Fl t, -task Ar taskname
The task name to boot.
.It Fl c, -cycle Ar YYYYMMDDHHMM
The full cycle name for which the task is to be booted.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The command:
.Pp
.Dl "rocotoboot -d foo.db -w foo.xml -t wrf -c 201301010000"
.Pp
Will boot (forcibly run) the
.Qq wrf
task for the cycle
.Qq 201301010000
defined in the workflow definition file named
.Qq foo.xml
and contained in the database file named
.Qq foo.db
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh DOCUMENTATION
Complete documentation can be found at: http://rdhpcs.noaa.gov/rocoto/
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rocotocheck 1 ,
.Xr rocotorun 1 ,
.Xr rocotostat 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
command is expected to be
.St -p1003.2
compatible.
.Sh AUTHOR
Written by Christopher Harrop
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs to <christopher.w.harrop@noaa.gov>
